[R2] Doc updates (#5828)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/r2/how-to/public-buckets.md

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Public Buckets
---

# Getting started with Public Buckets on R2

## Overview

Public Bucket is a feature that allows users to expose the contents of their R2 buckets directly to the internet. By default, buckets are never publicly accessible and will always require explicit user permission to enable.

> Public buckets can be set up in one of two ways. The first exposes it as a custom domain that you control. The second exposes it as a https://pub-<UUID>.r2.dev/<object> domain that Cloudflare owns. You can use neither (the default), one, or both options as you desire. r2.dev is perfect for testing out a very minimal configuration or if you don't have a domain name you control. Using a custom domain name gives you more fine-grained configuration over the domain like configuring firewall rules, caching, access controls, and bot management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Public buckets can be set up two ways:

1. The first exposes your bucket as a custom domain. 
2. The second exposes your bucket as an `*.r2.dev` subdomain that is generated after you set up your bucket. 

The `r2.dev` subdomain can be used for testing out a minimal configuration. Using a custom domain allows you to configure over the domain like configuring firewall rules, caching, access controls, and Bot Management.
```

Reviewer: Is firewall rules, caching, access control and bot management not possible with an r2.dev subdomain? It seems like it so changed the sentence to match with the aside below.

> ## Enabling public access for the Bucket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enable public access for your bucket
```

> Here’s how you can enable public access for your buckets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable public access for your buckets:
```

> 1. Navigate to the R2 product screen using the sidebar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) > select your account > **R2**.
```

![Choose R2 from the side menu](/r2/static/public-buckets-r2.png)

> 2. From the R2 overview screen, select the bucket for which you want to enable public access by clicking on the name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In. **R2**, select the bucket you want to enable public access for.
```

![Select your bucket](/r2/static/public-buckets-bucket.png)

> 3. Next, navigate to the Settings tab of the bucket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Go to **Settings**.
```

![Select settings](/r2/static/public-buckets-settings.png)

> 4. Under settings, you will see a new section called Bucket Access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In **Settings**, go to **Bucket Access**.
```

![Select bucket access](/r2/static/public-buckets-not-allowed.png)

> 5. To enable public access, click on the Allow Access button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Under **Bucket Access**, select **Allow Access**.
```

![Allow access](/r2/static/public-buckets-allow-access.png)

> 6. In the confirmation dialog, type in ‘allow’ to confirm and click the Allow button.
> 7. That’s it! You can now access the bucket and its objects using the Public Bucket URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. You will be prompted to confirm your choice. Type ‘allow’ to confirm and select **Allow**.
7. You can now access the bucket and its objects using the Public Bucket URL.
```

![Show Public Bucket URL](/r2/static/public-buckets-allowed.png)

> 8. You can also see which buckets have public access from the overview page.

Reviewer: What overview page is this referring to? I see a list of buckets but I do not see whether they are public or not on R2's dash homepage.

Reviewer 2: It'll be in the overview of a specific bucket

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/94662631/190450721-8b76caad-e5a1-40e2-8478-78ec5dfdef12.png)

> **Note**: *To enable Access, Cache and bot management features you'll need to map a custom domain to your public bucket.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<Aside type="note">}}

To enable access management, Cache and bot management features, you must set up a custom domain when enabling public access to your bucket.

{{</Aside>}}
```

> ## Connecting the Bucket to a domain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connect your bucket to a custom domain
```

Reviewer: The UI displays "add a custom domain" when going through this process. UI and docs should match each other as much as possible to avoid user confusion.

> Domain access allows websites to serve content from the associated Bucket. They also benefit from features such as Access, Cache and bot management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Domain access allows websites to serve content from the associated Bucket. They also benefit from features such as Access, Cache and bot management. You can only connect a domain if it is active under your account on Cloudflare. To set up a domain on Cloudflare, refer to [the DNS documentation](https://developers.cloudflare.com/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/setup/). You cannot connect domains or subdomains already connected to other Cloudflare products.
```

Author: both this suggested change and the one below modify this same line (54) which is throwing off github.  I'm going to accept the later one and we can adjust if necessary

> Domain access allows websites to serve content from the associated Bucket. They also benefit from features such as Access, Cache and bot management.
> 
> Here’s how you can connect a domain:
> 1. Select the bucket to connect from the R2 overview screen
> 2. Navigate to the Settings tab of the bucket
> 3. Scroll down to the Domain Access section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Domain access allows websites to serve content from the associated bucket. They also benefit from features such as access management, Cache and bot management.

To connect a custom domain to your bucket:

1. Go to **R2** and select your bucket.
2. Go to **Settings**.
3. Go to **Domain Access**.
```

![Domain Access](/r2/static/public-buckets-domain-access.png)

> 4. Click on Connect Domain to begin the process of connecting the domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select **Connect Domain**.
```

![Connect Domain](/r2/static/public-buckets-connect-domain.png)

> 5. Enter the domain name you want to connect to and click the Continue button. (Note: Currently, we only support active domains under your account on Cloudflare. Also, you cannot enter domains or subdomains already reserved by other Cloudflare products.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Enter the domain name you want to connect to and select **Continue**.
```

![Add Domain](/r2/static/public-buckets-add-domain.png)

6. You’ll now see a preview of the new record that will be added to the DNS table. If everything looks good, click Connect Domain.
7. That’s it! The domain is now connected. It takes a few minutes for the status to change from Initializing to Active. You may need to refresh to see the status update. If you notice the status hasn’t changed for a long time, use the Retry connection action (in the overflow menu).

![Active and Allowed](/r2/static/public-buckets-active-allowed.png)

8. To view the added DNS record, click on the overflow button with the ellipsis for the connected domain and click on Manage DNS.

![Manage Cloudflare DNS](/r2/static/public-buckets-manage-cloudflare-dns.png)

## Disable domain access

> Here’s how you can disable a domain:

Reviewer: This should have a sentence in front explaining what effect disabling a domain will have.

> 1. From the R2 overview screen, select the bucket for which you want to disable access
> 2. Navigate to the Settings tab of the bucket
> 3. Scroll down to the Domain Access section
> 4. Select the domain to disable by navigating to the appropriate overflow button with ellipsis and click Disable domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In **R2**, select the bucket for which you want to disable custom domain access.
2. Go to **Settings**.
3. Scroll down to **Domain Access**.
4. Next to the domain you want to disable, select **...** and select **Disable domain**.
```

![Disable Domain](/r2/static/public-buckets-disable-domain.png)

> 5. The badge under Access to Bucket will update to ‘Not allowed’.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. The badge under **Access to Bucket** will update to **Not allowed**.
```

![Not Allowed](/r2/static/public-buckets-not-allowed-2.png)

## Remove domain

> Here’s how you can remove a domain:
> 
> 1. Select the bucket from the R2 overview screen for which you want to remove the domain
> 2. Navigate to the Settings tab of the bucket
> 3. Scroll down to the Domain Access section
> 4. Select the domain to disable by navigating to the appropriate overflow button with ellipsis and click Remove domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remove a domain:

1. In **R2**, select the bucket for which you want to remove domain access.
2. Go to **Settings**.
3. Scroll down to **Domain Access**.
4. Select **...** next to the domain to disable and select **Remove domain**.
```

![Remove Domain](/r2/static/public-buckets-remove-domain.png)

> 5. Click the ‘Remove domain’ button in the confirmation window. Note the CNAME record pointing to the record will also be removed as part of this step. You can always add the domain back.
> 6. That’s it. The domain is no longer connected and will no longer appear in the connected domains list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Select ‘Remove domain’ in the confirmation window. The CNAME record pointing to the domain will also be removed as part of this step. You can always add the domain again.

The domain is no longer connected to your bucket and will no longer appear in the connected domains list.
```

> ## Disabling public access for the Bucket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Disable public access for your bucket
```

> Here’s how you can disable public access for your buckets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable public access for your bucket:
```

> 1. From the R2 overview screen, select the bucket for which you want to turn off public access by clicking on the name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In **R2**, select the bucket for which you want to turn off public access.
```

![Choose R2 from the side menu](/r2/static/public-buckets-r2.png)

> 2. Navigate to the Settings tab of the bucket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to **Settings**.
```

![Select settings](/r2/static/public-buckets-settings.png)

> 3. Scroll down to the Public Access section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Scroll down to **Public Access**.
```

![Public Access](/r2/static/public-buckets-allowed.png)

> 3. Next, click on the ‘Disallow Access’ button to disallow public access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select **Disallow Access**.
```

![Disallow access](/r2/static/public-buckets-disallow-access.png)

> 4. In the confirmation dialog type ‘disallow’ to confirm and click the Disallow button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the confirmation dialog, type ‘disallow’ to confirm and select **Disallow**.
```

> 5. That’s it! Your Bucket and its objects can no longer be accessed using the Public Bucket URL. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Your bucket and its objects can no longer be accessed using the Public Bucket URL. 
```

## Enable public access for your bucket

To enable public access for your buckets:

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) > select your account > **R2**.

![Choose R2 from the side menu](/r2/static/public-buckets-r2.png)

2. In. **R2**, select the bucket you want to enable public access for.

![Select your bucket](/r2/static/public-buckets-bucket.png)

3. Go to **Settings**.

![Select settings](/r2/static/public-buckets-settings.png)

4. In **Settings**, go to **Bucket Access**.

![Select bucket access](/r2/static/public-buckets-not-allowed.png)

5. Under **Bucket Access**, select **Allow Access**.

![Allow access](/r2/static/public-buckets-allow-access.png)

6. You will be prompted to confirm your choice. In the confirmation dialog, type ‘allow’ to confirm and select **Allow**.
7. You can now access the bucket and its objects using the Public Bucket URL.

![Show Public Bucket URL](/r2/static/public-buckets-allowed.png)

8. You can also see which buckets have public access from the overview page.

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> To enable access management, Cache and bot management features, you must set up a custom domain when enabling public access to your bucket.

Reviewer: Note to add links to documentation for these features.

![Add Domain](/r2/static/public-buckets-add-domain.png)

6. Review the new record that will be added to the DNS table and select **Connect Domain**.

Your domain is now connected. It takes a few minutes for the status to change from **Initializing** to **Active**. Refresh to review the status update. If the status has not changed, select the *...* next to your bucket and select **Retry connection**.

![Active and Allowed](/r2/static/public-buckets-active-allowed.png)

To view the added DNS record, select *...* next to the connected domain and select **Manage DNS**.

![Manage Cloudflare DNS](/r2/static/public-buckets-manage-cloudflare-dns.png)

## Disable domain access

To disable a domain:

1. In **R2**, select the bucket for which you want to disable custom domain access.
2. Go to **Settings**.
3. Scroll down to **Domain Access**.
4. Next to the domain you want to disable, select **...** and select **Disable domain**.

![Disable Domain](/r2/static/public-buckets-disable-domain.png)

5. The badge under **Access to Bucket** will update to **Not allowed**.

![Not Allowed](/r2/static/public-buckets-not-allowed-2.png)

## Remove domain

> To remove a domain:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Removing a domain will remove custom domain configuration that you have set up on the dashboard. Your bucket will still be publicly accessible.

To remove a domain:
```

1. In **R2**, select the bucket for which you want to remove domain access.
2. Go to **Settings**.
3. Scroll down to **Domain Access**.
4. Select **...** next to the domain to disable and select **Remove domain**.

![Remove Domain](/r2/static/public-buckets-remove-domain.png)

5. Select ‘Remove domain’ in the confirmation window. The CNAME record pointing to the domain will also be removed as part of this step. You can always add the domain again.

The domain is no longer connected to your bucket and will no longer appear in the connected domains list.

## Disable public access for your bucket

> To disable public access for your bucket:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your bucket will not be exposed to the Internet after you disable public access.

To disable public access for your bucket:
```

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Public Buckets
weight: 5
---

> # Getting started with Public Buckets on R2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create Public Buckets on R2
```
